LexisNexis(TM) Academic - DocumentHome | Sources | How Do I? | Site Map | What's 
New | Help Search Terms: Dave Howland 

                   FOCUS™    
                         Edit Search




              Document 592 of 611. 

           


Copyright 1997 Associated Press 
All Rights Reserved 
Associated Press

 View Related Topics 

These materials may not be republished without the express written consent of 
The Associated Press

April 30, 1997, Wednesday, PM cycle

SECTION: Domestic News

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Cambridge shop unveils one of country's first 'Cheese Caves'

BYLINE: By DAVE HOWLAND, Associated Press Writer

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

BODY:
Ihsan Gurdal lifted a moldy linen and stabbed a curved knife into a 60-pound 
block of rare English cheddar cheese.

Gently extracting a core sample, he handed a piece to master chef Julia Child. 
She took time to savor the delicacy, which sells for $ 17.50 a pound. 

"That's more expensive than a prime steak," she said. "But it's good."

To be sure, it was no ordinary cheese, and it came off no ordinary shelf. It was 
one of many blocks and wheels stored in one of the nation's first "cheese caves" 
- a cool, humidified room for aging cheese to perfection.

Its European counterparts are true caves. But Gurdal designed and built this one 
himself in his store's basement, complete with a colorful trickling fountain 
that keeps the humidity up to 95 percent.

It took him seven years to research and build the refrigerated room, chilled to 
50 degrees and lined with thick redwood and spruce shelves.

"It's more like an urban cave," said Gurdal, a native of Turkey and board member 
of the American Cheese Society. "We're trying to duplicate the conditions of 
natural cellars in Europe. That's why it took a while to make it."

Child was among two dozen gourmet cooks and restaurateurs who showed up Tuesday 
for the opening, ducking under cellar pipes and beams to get to the little room.

Martha Holmberg, editor of the bimonthly international culinary magazine Fine 
Cooking, said she hopes it's a sign that the art of cheese ripening is on the 
upswing in the United States.

"I don't think people know how delicious cheese is when it's made by an 
artisan," she said.

Just as with wine, each cheese has its own character and season, Gurdal 
explained. And each has a time when it's ripe for serving - a nuance that is 
lost on many people.

"Often what happens in the U.S. is a good product gets ruined because it gets 
wrapped in plastic and sits on a shelf for months," he said.

While adults "oohed" and "aahed" at wheels of knoble Stilton, Double Gloucesters 
and Tomme de Savoies, 4-year-old Lauren Sampson turned back at the first ripe 
whiff of the cellar.

"It's too smelly" she said, leaving her mother, Sally, behind.

Cambridge Vice Mayor Kathy Born presented a proclamation honoring Gurdal's shop, 
the Formaggio Kitchen, for building the cheese cave.

"We want to be able to say we are The Cheese here in Cambridge," she said.

Upstairs, Child indulged in samples of creamy French brie and tangy goat cheese.

"Some people are not that exposed to unusual cheeses and European tastes," she 
said. "But they usually love them when they taste them."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997 




       Document 592 of 611. 

Terms and Conditions | Privacy
Copyright © 2006 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights 
Reserved.