LexisNexis(TM) Academic - DocumentHome | Sources | How Do I? | Site Map | What's 
New | Help Search Terms: Dave Howland 

                   FOCUS™    
                         Edit Search




              Document 70 of 611. 

           


Copyright 1999 Associated Press 
All Rights Reserved  
Associated Press Online

These materials may not be republished without the express written consent of 
The Associated Press

May 03, 1999; Monday 06:02 Eastern Time

SECTION: Domestic, non-Washington, general news item

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Climbers Say Body Found on Everest

BYLINE: DAVE HOWLAND


DATELINE: BOSTON

BODY:
It has been 75 years since George Mallory and Andrew Irvine, bundled in woolen 
coats and trousers, vanished near the top of the world's highest mountain.

On Saturday, members of an expedition seeking to learn whether the two 
Englishmen were the first to summit Mount Everest, made an astonishing find at 
27,000 feet the body of Mallory, according to the name tag sewn into his coat.

''When we realized that it was George Mallory, we were really blown away by 
that,'' climber Dave Hahn said in a dispatch relayed on the Internet by one of 
the expedition's sponsors, Seattle-based MountainZone.com. 

''We didn't want to disturb him, he'd been lying there for 75 years,'' said 
Hahn, the first to find the body. ''But at the same time we thought, 'What 
better tribute to the man than to try and find out if he had summitted Mt. 
Everest in 1924?'''

Eight climbers, including expedition leader Eric Simonson, plan to continue 
looking for the body of Irvine and a camera that could contain images proving 
they reached the summit 29 years before Sir Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing 
Norgay.

Following the wishes of Mallory's family, Hahn and his companions performed an 
informal memorial service, according to MoutainZone Editor Peter Potterfield.

''Our expedition was formed to pay homage to these great British climbers,'' 
Simonson said on the Internet.

The search is funded by PBS for the Boston-based television show NOVA, which is 
documenting the expedition. NOVA is also posting online updates throughout the 
expedition.

Mallory's body was found 2,000 feet from the windblown 29,028-foot summit not 
far from the body of a Chinese climber, Wang Hongbao, whose accounts were used 
by the NOVA crew to try to locate Mallory and Irvine.

Expedition planner Jochen Hemmleb, a 28-year-old German climber and Mallory 
historian working from the team's base camp, chose the search location based 
largely on Hongbao's report of a body on the North Ridge route Mallory and 
Irvine would have taken.

Hongbao described the body as ''English Dead,'' and indicated its vintage 
clothing broke to pieces when he touched it. But two days after he told his 
story in 1975, he died in an avalanche on Everest's North Face.

Mallory's body was found on a snow terrace, just below the spot where an ice ax 
believed to be Irvine's was found in 1933. The ax had three notches on the 
handle, which was how Irvine marked his equipment.

The current climb, which began on March 29, is being made in six stages. The 
mountaineers establish camps at ever higher altitudes, and then descend to base 
camp as they become acclimated to the thin air.

High winds combined with low precipitation have scoured the mountain clean, 
helping the expedition.

''I want to convey how much, for us, this discovery is a huge achievement and so 
far beyond our wildest dreams,'' Simonson said. ''It is hard to convey our 
excitement over this discovery.''

Aside from his climbing, Mallory's place in history is secure, if only for his 
memorable answer to the question of why he wanted to climb the world's highest 
peak: ''Because it is there.''



LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1999 




       Document 70 of 611. 

Terms and Conditions | Privacy
Copyright © 2006 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights 
Reserved.