LexisNexis(TM) Academic - DocumentHome | Sources | How Do I? | Site Map | What's 
New | Help Search Terms: Dave Howland 

                   FOCUS™    
                         Edit Search




              Document 393 of 611. 

           


Copyright 1998 Associated Press 
All Rights Reserved

 
The Associated Press

 View Related Topics 

These materials may not be republished without the express written consent of 
The Associated Press

September 7, 1998, Monday, PM cycle

SECTION: International News

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Clergy comfort townspeople, promise to remember crash victims

BYLINE: By DAVE HOWLAND, Associated Press Writer

DATELINE: HACKETTS COVE, Nova Scotia

BODY:
With a tragedy dropping from the skies on his little parish, the Rev. Richard 
Walsh has never been needed so much.

Churchgoers here say Walsh, a man with a firm handshake and hair as white as his 
flowing robe, is not prone to emotions. But on Sunday, Walsh had to cry.

"This has been a horrible week," he said, pausing to choke back tears in his 
first sermon of the day to 30 people at St. Peter's Church. "I'm sorry, I'll be 
OK." 

As the remains of passengers and their possessions wash up on the shore, Walsh 
has worked around the clock to counsel the residents of the small fishing 
villages on the edge of St. Margaret's Bay.

Standing under the stained-glass image of Jesus walking on water, moments before 
giving his first sermon, Walsh said he hadn't put much thought into what would 
possibly be the most important services of his career.

"I've had to deal with death all through my ministry," he said. "But I've never 
had to deal with anything at this level."

At the Anglican churches of St. Peter's and St. John's in Peggy's Cove - where 
family members of the victims have gathered to look out over the ocean - Walsh 
thanked townspeople, emergency workers and volunteers for doing all they can to 
help.

"This is Nova Scotia, this is what we do," he said.

Walsh said routines would soon return to normal, but the people around St. 
Margaret's Bay would never forget the disaster. He prepared them for what's to 
come.

"The cameras and crews are going to depart. Then we'll have the morbidly curious 
who will come and look out and be disappointed they didn't see anything and they 
will go, quickly, I hope," he said. "The tourists will come back," men will 
return to work, "and they will remember," he said.

The words were a comfort for many parishioners, including Ray Boutilier of 
Hacketts Cove, who helped recover human remains aboard his fishing charter boat.

Boutilier, a World War II veteran, said he wished he hadn't gone because it 
dredged up memories of the war. When he got back to the dock, he found a white 
sock tangled in his prop.

Helen Levy, whose husband was killed in a car crash years ago while returning 
from work in Halifax, said Wednesday night's plane crash brought back memories 
of grieving for her husband and a rush of sympathy for the victims' families.

"When I got the call about the car accident I had this awful sick feeling in my 
stomach," she said. "I'd hoped I'd never feel it again. I know what those people 
are feeling."

Walsh was not alone in providing comfort.

David Bugler, an Anglican priest from Cobbleskill, N.Y., was returning from a 
vacation in Peggy's Cove when he heard news of the plane crash on the radio and 
turned his car around to help. While Walsh has looked after townspeople, Bugler 
has comforted victims' family members at Peggy's Cove.

Bugler said he has mostly listened. One time he provided hot chocolate to a man 
and his two young boys who lost a wife and mother. They drank it looking over 
the ocean as the sun set and it seemed to help.

"There was a young woman who was crying and I walked up to her and said, 'Who is 
it?"' Bugler said. "She said 'My cousin.' She was a young woman who had three 
children who went down with her. That's pretty heavy stuff."

Walsh said he has had one happy occasion in the midst of the despair - a wedding 
on Friday. But it too had been touched by the disaster: The groom was a crew 
member aboard the Canadian Coast Guard helicopter that was first on the scene of 
the crash.

"Life goes on," Walsh said. "It has to."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998 




       Document 393 of 611. 

Terms and Conditions | Privacy
Copyright © 2006 LexisNexis, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights 
Reserved.